Content Status Pattern (#2943)
jpmorganchase/salt-ds: site/docs/patterns/content-status.mdx

---
title: Content Status
layout: DetailPattern
aliases:
  - /salt/patterns/content-status
data:
  resources:
    [
      { href: "https://storybook.saltdesignsystem.com/?path=/story/patterns-content-status--info", label: "Examples" },
      { href: "https://www.figma.com/file/InTRZY7R7OdeY0Ye9eyzma/(WIP)-Content-Status?type=design&node-id=652-3271&mode=design&t=BoYoZt69VHfzizeO-0", label: "Content Status examples", internal: true },
    ]
---

Content Status is a pattern that provides information when content isn’t ready to be shown in a container component of an application.

> It remains onscreen until a situation is resolved, or an action is taken by your user, making them a great tool for communication and guidance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It remains onscreen until a situation is resolved, or an action is taken by your user, making them a great tool for communication and guidance.
```
This might just be me but we switch to referring to Content Status as plural (them) at the end of this sentence cc @mikearildbrown

<Diagram
  src="/img/patterns/content-status/content-status.png"
  alt="Example showing a content status with an info indicator"
  border
/>

We provide design guidance for using Salt [Button](/salt/components/button), [Progress](/salt/components/progress), [Spinner](/salt/components/spinner), [Stack Layout](/salt/components/stack-layout), [Status Indicator](/salt/components/status-indicator), and [Text](/salt/components/text) components to achieve the pattern. You can also find implementation examples in the [Storybook](https://storybook.saltdesignsystem.com/?path=/story/patterns-content-status--info).

## When to use it

Use cases for this pattern could include:
- When content is being loaded
- When you want to share information with your users
- When you need to let your users know there’s an error
- When your user has successfully submitted content

## How to build it

> Content Status is comprised of visual status indicators (Progress, Spinner, Status Indicator) and text elements as supporting messages, a Button can be added to reload content or perform a different action if it will help your users. Use Stack Layout to vertically arrange the structure of the components.

Reviewer 2: might be a good idea to link to these components?

> Content Status is comprised of visual status indicators ([Progress](/salt/components/progress), [Spinner](/salt/components/spinner), [Status Indicator](/salt/components/status-indicator)) and text elements as supporting messages, a Button can be added to reload content or perform a different action if it will help your users. Use Stack Layout to vertically arrange the structure of the components.

Author: Button bar had nested layouts and alternate layouts so there were more instructions. In this case it's basically just: '1. Use a stack layout component to arrange the components vertically`. cc @yunjungyeh

<Diagram
  src="/img/patterns/content-status/build.png"
  alt="Example showing a content status with components and spacing labeled"
  border
/>

<ExampleContainer type="positive" customPillText="Best practices">
- Make sure it fills the height and width of the container component.
- Titles and supporting messages should be horizontally and vertically centered in the container.
</ExampleContainer>

### Write supporting messages

**Have a clear hierarchy:**

> Your titles should be stand-alone, revealing key information your users need to know, without relying on the supporting message–which users may skim over

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your titles should be stand-alone, revealing key information your users need to know, without relying on the supporting message–which users may skim over.
```

Author: Ironically I must have skimmed this over.

**Be helpful:**

If it’s possible for your users to resolve or rectify an issue, make sure you state this clearly.

**Be simple:** 

> Try to limit the length of the title to less than two lines, and supporting messages to no more than three lines.

Reviewer: Less than two lines? I'm assuming this means 1?

Reviewer: Maybe another random one. Does it actually make sense to refer to the number of lines a title spans as length?

Reviewer: cc @mikearildbrown

Author: ```suggestion
Try to limit titles to a single line and supporting messages to no more than three lines.
```
?
